a spokesman for the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza says an Israeli tank is
now stationed outside the city's biggest
Hospital the alifa hospital says it's
not accepting any new patients after
running out of fuel to power its
generators the Israeli military says it
will allow what it calls a self-
evacuation corridor from the facility on
Monday which would enable people to seek
safety in southern Gaza the World Health
Organization says thousands of people
are trapped inside
stitching up a head wound by the light
of a mobile
phone doctors in hospitals in Northern
Gaza are struggling to save
patients here too at the alifa hospital
they're running out of fuel water and
medical supplies and are vulnerable to
the ongoing Israeli air strikes in the
area
Hospital under under fires the last
example is chifa Hospital ICU there is
another Private obric Hospital was
targeted directly today and two of our
colleague who are specialist in obric
and Gynecology were killed
tonight there is no service for
Pediatric patients in the Northern
Area Israel denies targeting civilians
and says that this footage is proof that
its military provided the alifa hospital
with 300 L of fuel for its
generators but that it was rejected by
Hamas we offered actually uh last night
to give them enough fuel to operate the
hospital operate the incubators and so
on because we have we have obviously no
battle with patients or with civilians
at all uh and I think every civilian
death every dead baby is a tragedy but
that tragedy should be placed squarely
at the responsibility of Hamas that is
keeping its military installations
inside hospitals it's command posts
inside hospitals inside schools inside
unra un facilities and so on the
director of alifa has denied rejecting
the fuel which he says would not have
been enough to power the hospital's
generators for even one
hour the worsening situation in Northern
Gaza is forcing thousands to flee
southwards mostly on
foot even some health workers have made
the decision to
leave the situation last night was very
tense very extreme the bombing targeted
schools and hospitals I work for the
office of the Ministry of Health at the
hospital yesterday the Israeli Army
bombed the hospital where I work that's
why today I did not go to work or
fulfill my duties and I
fled tens of thousands have already fled
the ongoing missile strikes and ground
operation Israel is coming under
increasing International pressure to
minimize civilian suffering in
Gaza well Toby fra is from UNICEF and
joins us from Aman in Jordan Palestinian
officials say power outages are
threatening the lives of premature
babies in particular some of them can't
survive without incubators what are you
hearing yeah I mean the reports from
alifa in particular but also other
hospitals across uh Northern Gaza Strip
are um you know are disastrous when you
seeing premature babies uh who rely on
incubators who rely on oxygen you know
they need power um it's really
catastrophic situation and um you know
we have a situation where half of the
medical facilities half the hospitals
inside Gaza are now not functioning and
and that's bad at any time in peace time
yell alone when you have a crisis like
this where you're have also taking in
massive numbers of injured people
injured
children what about um the claims from
Israel's military uh which says it's
been helping evacuate some patients
mostly kids from alifa hospital are you
able to confirm
that well I mean evacuations of
hospitals uh at any time are incredibly
difficult and Incredibly dangerous um
particularly for very vulnerable
patients like you know like newborns um
and other children other civilians who
are on dialysis for example so
evacuating uh hospitals is almost
impossible to do that safely at a time
when the hostilities are still so
intense inside the G strip um so this is
a you huge concern just to be able to
bring people out is so so difficult if
there's a safe passage and if the
doctors are able to to manage that uh
then maybe there is a way but right now
the situation is far too acute and
dangerous for that to happen well Toby
what is the way because at the moment
things aren't going to change uh
according to Israel until uh all
hostages are releases are released from
the Gaza Strip so what what can be done
to help these kids in
Gaza well I mean there's a simple way
and and that is to have a ceasefire you
know to have a humanitarian ceasefire
which will stop children being killed
stop uh children being injured and at
the same time said that's not going to
happen until Israel uh sees those
hostages
release I was just going to say at the
same time is for the immediate release
and unconditional and safe release of
all the Israeli children civilians and
children especially uh who have been
abducted which is a great violation um
and and so those conditions are
absolutely vital that both those are
achieved um for the sake of every child
but at the same time then we also need
to scale up massively this life saving
support to help children civilians who
are in the shelters who are all over the
Gip displaced as well CU at the moment
we just keep going in circles don't we
uh and and this war has been going on
for for a month
now yeah you're right I mean day in day
out we we're saying the same thing and
um and and it's not getting any better
um it's getting worse if anything um and
that's what's so tragic is that we're
not able to to secure you know any uh
conditions that can improve the lives
and better protect children and that's
up to the parties of the conflict you
know as UNICEF as a humanitarian agency
we're here to advocate for the
protection of we're here here to support
them and do whatever we can to provide
life- saving assistance but this is up
to the parties to the conflict this is
up to to others who can help to
influence that and and we do our
advocacy and we'll keep doing that until
children are better
protected UNICEF stby frer there for us
joining us from Aman in Jordan thank you
very much for the
insights
am